Now that you have some understanding about how networking works and how the internet works, let's now
talk about networking layers.
Now we really didn't define what exactly is networking.
And we also said that networking has these layers like the physical layer like those cables and then
switches and whatnot.
But we didn't really define networking layers.
And also what exactly networking is.
Now one definition that I can give about networking is that it's just a way of communication between
computers.
And the biggest network that we can think of right now is the internet, that all the computers are
connected together, and they could all talk together, or we could have a smaller network.
So you could right now set up a network in your own home, just like that.
I did right now with my MacBook and iPad.
So I connected them to a router, and right now I have a private network for myself.
You whenever you are, you have no way to connect to my network.
So that node application that I have, you cannot connect to it unless you first connect to my network
first.
And the way that you can do it is to connect to my router.
So this is what we mean by networking.
Just a way of communication between computers.
And this whole networking concept has some layers to it.
So let's now talk about these layers.

Now the first layer, the most basic layer is the physical layer.
Now here we're talking about cables.
And the way that information is moved here is using bits.
All right.
So you have a cable like an Ethernet cable that comes with RJ 45 connectors.
And that's the most common form of a networking cable that you can buy right now.
And you can use to connect your laptop to a router and so on.
So this is the most basic layer of the whole networking concepts.

Now on top of this layer.
Now this layer again just cares about zeros and ones and how to move them across.
It has no idea about data.
It has no idea what is an IP address.
What is a mac address?
Nothing.
It just gets some zeros and ones and it moves them across.
Now, this is of course, really useless on its own for us, because what can you do with those zeroes and
ones?
I mean, you were just getting some zeros and ones.
You have no idea where those are coming from, which machine is sending them and also what that data
is representing.

So on top of physical layer we have something called a data link layer.
Now this is where all the switches will come into play.
And this part moves data and frames.
So in data link we have switches.
And these switches will receive those zeros and ones.
And they will combine them into this whole frame thing.
So they will extract the Mac address the data, the destination Mac address, the source Mac address.
And they will create this kind of neat concept, neat thing called a frame.
And then they will figure out which machine has that destination Mac address and send that frame across
to that machine.
And when it's sending it again, it's sending it using the physical layer.
So it sends those zeros and ones using the physical layer using the cable.
That machine will receive those zeros and ones.
And the network card on that machine will transfer those into again a frame.

Now on top of the data link layer we have the network layer.
And this is where we have packets.
Now this is where routers will come into play and IP addresses.
And this is a very important part because without this in place we cannot have a concept like internet
or a huge networks because well a switch could only handle so many.
If you want to go crazy and have hundreds of computers, some of them might be in one building, another
one in another building, another one in another city.
You will have a lot of routing to do, you know.
So that is where the network layer will come into play.
And here it uses packets and it also uses IP addresses.

Now on top of the network layer.
Because again the network layer on itself is kind of useless.
I mean yeah it's very important part.
I mean you could get a packet and you could get some zeros and ones and you will now know how to route
it
Right.
So you know which machine send that and you know the destination that it should go.
For example, we might send some data from San Francisco over to Toronto.
There's a huge distance between these two.
But the network layer, all those routers in between, know how to route that traffic.
So they know which router now to choose to route that traffic to.
And that router will now determine which other routers to choose.
And they do that based on IP addresses.
Now on top of this we have something called transport layer.
And here when information is moving in this layer we say we usually call them segments.
Now transport layer makes sure that those packets that you're sending it gets across safely.
And if maybe one of them gets lost, which is actually pretty common, it will maybe resend or retransmit
that packet, right?
So it will figure out that the packet was lost.
So it will tell the destination actually the source to send it again, and then it will receive it.
So it's all about moving the data and connection.

Now on top of this, now that we have a way to move data to transport data and make sure that we are
receiving the exact bits that were sent.
Now we have this big layer which is called application layer.
Now in this layer, when we say the data is moving in this layer, we just say data.
So this is where we really care about in NodeJS.
All right.
So now this is where we set up our Http applications where we set up maybe an email server application,
an FTP server SSH and many, many other things.
So now that we have a way of communication.
So now that we know how to transport data safely, we could now set up something to kind of make sense
out of those data that get sent across.
So these are the layers of networking.

It starts from the very bottom physical layer.
And then it goes all the way up to application.
So a lot is going on when you just send an Http request or when you just open a Google page.
And again in each layer.
We care about some specific things that we don't really care about in another layer.
Now there is something that links these layers together.
For example, here in this layer, there's something that kind of links this to the network layer and
so on and so forth.
For example, in the transport layer the port is specified.
So that port is kind of linking this transport layer to this application layer.

Now of course not everybody agrees with this layering thing.
I mean we have some other definitions for these layerings, but the concept is pretty much the same.
For example, there is this other model which is called the TCP IP model, which puts the bottom two
layers into only one layer, called the network access layer.
And it also calls the network layer the internet layer.
But the rest is the same.
But as you can see, the concept is pretty much the same.
The TCP IP model just says that we could regard the bottom two layers as one layer.
And also there is this other model called the OSI model.
And in that model it breaks the application layer into three layers a session layer, a presentation
layer, and an application layer.
But then again, you don't really need to care too much about them.

Now the whole reason that we have these layering stuff is because this networking concept is pretty
complex.
I mean, moving information from one computer and to another computer and making sure that we're receiving
the exact same bits and also making sense out of it.
It is some complex stuff.
And because it's so complex, we try to break this huge problem into smaller problems so that now each
team could just work on one problem at a time.
So a couple people could just work in the physical layer.
And then the data link layer is separate from that physical layer.
And also the application layer is separate from the network layer and so on.
So this is why we do it.

We're just trying to break a huge problem into simpler and smaller problems, so that we can now work
on one of them at a time.
This is the whole reason that we have these layers.
So you will see some other people who divide this concept into different things.
But this concept is the same.
We have bits, we have switches, routers, a transport layer and then some way to move the state around.
Now somebody might call these layers into one thing, another one might call three layers into one thing.
Again, it does not matter at all.
So let's do another quick recap.

So in physical layer we care about signals and binary transmission.
And the way it works is that imagine you have a cable.
And when there's light in it it means a one.
And if there is no light in it, it means a zero.
And that happens quite fast.
And there is a time frame, kind of like a clock synchronization that figures out how often this happens.
For example, each millisecond it will check it.
So a second has 1000 milliseconds.
And it will see in one of those, each one of those milliseconds if there is light or not.
So what it means right now is that in each second it could move 1000 bits, because each second is divided
into 1000 milliseconds, and it checks in each one of those milliseconds whether or not there is light.
Now, networking cables that we have right now are much, much faster than 1000 bits a second.
In fact, the latest cable Cat eight, I guess, which is again an RJ 45 cable, it's a ten Gigabit
Ethernet, which means that it could move information 1 billion bits a second, which is a lot of data.
It means that you could now move data one gigabyte in each second.
So we're talking about some fast speeds when we're talking about physical layer.
It's incredibly fast one gigabyte of data and each second incredibly fast.



We care deeply about Mac addresses because we want to know that if data is coming, what Mac address
is sending that data, and also what machine that's connected to our switch has that Mac address and
data link.
We care a lot about Mac addresses now in network layer, we care a lot about IP addresses and also path
determination.
Now in this layer we have to care deeply about how to assign IP addresses and also how to move information
across.
For example, you might have thousands of routers and now you need to know how to get information from
one endpoint to another endpoint.
And what is the shortest path to take.
So a lot is going on here.
But again it's not really our job.
We do need to understand IP addresses and have some sense about how they work, but it's not our job
to learn how to assign IP addresses and also how to move this information, and how to choose the shortest
path from one endpoint to another endpoint.
Now in transport layer here.
We care about end to end connections, and there are now two main protocols that we use in this layer.
One of them is TCP and another one is UDP.
So you could use one of these protocols to move information from one point to another point.
Now we're going to talk a lot about TCP and UDP.
And we're going to see how they differ and which one to choose.
Now as a node developer, the layer that you really, really care about and the layer that you're working
in is the application layer.

All right.

So this is your job as a node developer.
This is the job of any other back end developer.
You don't need to care about Mac addresses as a back end developer.

Now some examples that would fall in this application layer would be one of them Http.
Another one maybe SMTp servers which are for email servers or in general email servers, SSH, FTP,
which is a server to move files around.
So it's not just Http.
There are many more protocols out there that fall into this application layer.
So it's a very complex layer.
And you could do all of these things using NodeJS.
So you could create an SSH application from scratch using NodeJS.
Because SSH is on top of TCP.
FTP, which is a file uploading protocol, is built on top of TCP.
And also some other protocols are built on top of UDP, which we're going to talk about later.
But this is what we really mean when we say networking.
And Node.js is a networking application.
Its main purpose is to develop networking applications.
So now that we have a way to move data around using TCP and UDP.


