
So right now we have a small network of computers connected together.
Now you might be wondering what will happen if we want to have multiple networks of these.
So it's just a couple of computers right now.
What if we want to have millions of computers?
What if we want to have another network that is maybe located in another city, and now we want to make
this network talk to that other network.
So this network might be right here, and then we might have another network right here.
Now this network could be in another building or in another city or actually in another country.
The point is that this is a separate network from this one.
And we also want to have another network here, maybe and maybe millions of other networks and other
computers.
So how can we now make all these computers to talk together?
We can imagine that it will be really unpractical to try to use switches and connect millions of cables
together.
It's really, really messy.
And it's actually not possible to do it because it will get super complicated.
You can't have just one switch or maybe multiple switches, but connect all these computers to those.
It's just not possible.
So what we do is that we add a layer on top of the switches, and we use routers to do this.
So now we first just have a cable which only could transfer a zero or a one.
Now then we had switches and now we have routers on top of the switches.
So when we install the routers on top of the switches this is going to be pretty interesting.
So now we could connect these routers together also using some cables just like before.
And now what happens is that a computer right here could talk to a computer right here.
So the way that routers work is instead of Mac addresses they now work with IP addresses.
Well they're running on top of the switch.
So they still understand Mac addresses.
But now they mainly work with IP addresses.
So a router has an IP address for example.
In this case it might be 1220 301.
Now, don't worry too much right now about the format of an IP address.
We're going to talk about it in great detail.
Now, basically, an IP address is a unique address assigned to a specific device.
And it's unique, just like, you know, Mac addresses.
So each computer right now and each router will have a unique IP address associated with it.
So just like what you see now this router, its job is to assign IP addresses to all the computers that
are connected to it.
So we'll automatically assign IP addresses to all these computers connected to it.
And it will also route data.
So it could route data from this network to the other network.
So that's basically what routers do.
So with these IP addresses in place right now.
Now think of an IP address like your address your home address.
So you might want to send a package from your home to another person.
Maybe they could be in the same city as you are or they could be in another country.
The thing is that you have a unique address assigned to yourself, to your home, and that's unique.
So the way it works is that you might first say your city, for example, Toronto, and then your street
address and then your postal code.
So you might say Toronto and then maybe 200 something Adeline Street and then a postal code or your
unit number.
But that address, whatever you put down is specifically unique only to your home.
There is no other home in the world that has the exact same address as yours do, because you also specify
the country and also the city and then street number and everything else.
The same is true with IP addresses.
Each computer, each device has a unique IP address assigned to it.
Now, in this case, the first two portions of an IP address will act kind of like the city.
So for example, these two computers are in the same network.
Therefore their first portions as you can see here, 32.10 are identical.
And then only the last two digits or the last two portions are now different.
Same as here.

This router, this network, its main portion, its network portion is 189.120.
And then the last two portions are for the network.
So it will add more to these numbers for other computers that connect to this router.
So an IP address we're going to talk again more about the format.
But again think of it like that.
For example I'm in Toronto I will say Toronto.
And then my street number and then my unit number.
Someone who is in New York will do the same thing.
They will put their city, their street number, and then maybe their unit number or postal code or
whatever.
But the point is, our first portions are now different.
I'll say Toronto and the other person might say New York, but if another person in the same city as
I am puts down their address, their first portion will look the same, right?
So I'm in Toronto, I'll say Toronto and then my street number.
Another person is in Toronto and they will say Toronto and their street number.
But people who are in New York will say New York and their street number.
Same is true here.
The first portion will kind of regard like a city, and then the last portion will act like, you know,
the subnets of that network.
So all these children of that network, if that makes sense.
Now we're going to talk about this more.
But the point is that now we set up something that every single computer right now could talk to each
other.
So this computer right here could now specify the IP address of this computer or maybe this computer.
And they could now talk to each other.
They could now send bits to each other.
And if you can send bits, if we can send zeros and ones, you can actually send anything you want.
You can send a huge file.
You could send video file applications.
It doesn't matter.
So this is what the internet really is.
It's just so many computers, so many computers, millions of computers, billions actually, that are
connected together using cables, switches and routers.
And each one of them have their network card.
So they could now connect to the network either using an Ethernet cable or maybe using Wi-Fi, or even
using cellular connection like 4G or 5G.
And now each one of these devices have their own unique IP address.
So as long as you're connected to the internet, it means that you are connected to this huge, vast
network.
And you could now just specify an IP address of a computer of a device, be it a server, be it a laptop.
It doesn't matter.
It could be anything.
And when you specify that IP address, given the fact that, of course, that computer with that IP
address is sending some.
Formation through that IP address.
You could now talk to it.
And that device, that endpoint could now send you information.
Well actually apart from the IP address you also need to know the port.
Because let's imagine this very computer right here 3000.
This computer could maybe send various informations on its different ports.
So for example on port 3000 it might send a website and maybe on port 6000 it might maybe send an image
or maybe on port 22 it might be an SSH.
So if this computer specifies this IP address but also specifies the port, maybe port 22 will get access
to the whole computer.
And it could now, you know, get access to the whole disk, you know, delete everything.
Or maybe just copy something or do whatever that computer wants with this computer, because now this
computer has access to this whole computer.
Given the fact, of course, that it could specify the IP address, the port and also the password.
And of course, this computer should allow it.
So in its network settings, it should allow that traffic that comes through that specific port should
be, you know for my SSH.
So you could see that how the internet right now works.
As many, many computers were again connected together.
So if you right now pick up your phone, open up a chat application and send a message to your friends,
maybe in Europe, and you might be, I don't know, maybe in Canada or United States.
Well, that message is traveling through these cables, these switches and routers to get across from
United States to Europe.
So there is a physical connection right now between you and you might be maybe in California and your
friend might be maybe in Paris.
There is a physical connection between you two.
If you're talking together using internet, if you are FaceTiming each other, or if you are chatting
together and you're sending messages across, there's a physical connection between you two.
You might be saying, well, that really sounds bizarre.
I mean, I'm in California.
That person is in Europe.
There's a vast ocean that separates us, so there is no physical connection.
Right.
Well, the answer is no.
Wrong.
There is actually a physical connection right now between you and that person in Europe.
If you are connected together.
And I know it might not really make sense, but that's the facts.




Now you might be using wireless or 4G or 5G, but still it's the same concept that is only in the short
distance.
So if I'm connected to a Wi-Fi right now, I am connected to a router and that router is connected to
the whole internet.
Well, when you go on ahead and you try to buy one of those wrappers.
So imagine you first buy your computer, and that computer has no way of communicating with the outside
world.
So there is no internet in it.
And this is your first computer.
You've never bought internet from anyone else.
So what would you do?
I mean, how would you think you could now connect to your computer with your laptop, to this huge,
vast network so that you could just specify the IP address of one computer anywhere in the world and
be able to talk to them, be able to exchange information back and forth.
Well, the way you could do this is that you should use some companies which are called ISPs or internet
service providers, and these ISPs will actually give you internet.
So their job, their sole purpose is to give you a way of connecting your devices to this huge, vast
network.
So that's basically what an ISP does.
So when you first buy a mobile phone or maybe a laptop, it's not.
It doesn't magically know how to connect to the internet, right?
What you do is that you were going to go ahead and buy maybe a cellular plan or a phone plan or whatever,
and then when you buy that, you will buy a SIM card and then insert it into your phone, or it might
be an eSIM.
It doesn't matter.
But what happens is that you are buying something.
A plan that will allow you to connect to this whole network, right?
Same when you buy a router.
So for your home, if you want to connect your home to the internet.
So anybody who comes to your home could just, you know, connect to your Wi-Fi.
And now they boom, they magically have access to the whole internet.
That is what you do.
You buy a router.
Now when you usually buy a router, it's not a router .
It's actually a router and a switch and maybe a wireless thing in it.


