
So let's take a look at one networking scenario right now pretty quick.
So let's say that I have my laptop right here, my MacBook.
And I also have a router.
So I bought a router and I installed it.
And now this router could be connected to the internet or it could not be connected to the internet.
It doesn't matter.
The point is that I have now my laptop and also the router.
As I said before, when you buy one of these routers, that router comes with a switch.
And also in a lot of cases also with a wireless card.
So you don't really have to worry about setting up switches.
If you want to use this router in an Amazon data center, it's not really going to be practical.
They have to buy their own switches and routers and configure them specifically for their own company,for their own infrastructure.
But in this case, because you just have some personal use.
So you have a laptop, you have an iPad, you might have maybe ten more devices or 50 more devices,
but it doesn't matter.
That router is capable of handling all of these things.
So you don't have to worry about switches, routers and whatnot and connecting it to the whole internet.
That part is done using your ISP.
All right.
So you have your MacBook, you have your router, and you will connect your MacBook to your router.
Okay.
So you may be using wireless or using LAN.
It doesn't matter.
They will both work in the very similar way.
So if you're connected either using LAN or wireless, you still could just talk together, you know,
specify IP addresses and receive bits and zeros just like before.
Nothing is different.
The only thing that's difference is how the zeros and ones are now traveling.
So instead of traveling through a cable, those zeros and ones are now traveling through the air using
waves.
Maybe instead of using electricity or using light, zeros and ones are now traveling through the air.
So same concept.
Don't worry about it.
It's just about how the zeros and ones are traveling across.



All right, so with your MacBook in place and your router in place, these are now connected together.
And let's say that you also connect your iPad to this router.
So right now you have two devices that are connected to this router.
Now a router has an IP address for itself which is again configured by default.
That person, that company, whoever that designed and built this router configured this router to maybe
have this very specific IP address.
So a router also knows automatically again, by all those configurations, which are the jobs of a networking
engineer and not a software engineer, is configured to automatically assign a new IP address to any
device that connects to it.
So if I connect my iPad to this router just connect to Wi-Fi.
As soon as I connect I'm going to have an IP address.
And this IP address is assigned to me by that router.
Now there are again some conventions for these IP addresses, which we're going to talk about some of
them later.
But also we have some specific IP addresses.

For example this IP address right here 127 .0.0.1.
Now this is called a loopback address.
So if my MacBook right now specifies this IP address that traffic that it's sending through that IP
address will get looped back to itself just like this.
And it's a convention.
This very IP address, 127 .0.0.1 is associated with loopback.
So all the routers, all these switches, all the devices know by convention that this is loopback.
So when you send an information through this IP address your router is not going to get that traffic.
And then scratch that around and wonder how who in the world has this IP address.
So how can I now route this.
No that's not going to happen.
The information will not even get across to the router.
And if it does, in some cases the router will loop it back to that very device.
So this IP address that I have is again called a loopback address.
And also we also call it a local host.
So when you have maybe set up a small web server, maybe using NodeJS, Python, Java, what you've
done was that you would run your application and then you would go to browser and then specify a local
host colon and then your port number.
That local host just means this IP address.
So if instead of localhost you put down this IP address it's going to work just like before.
A localhost is kind of like an alias for this IP address, kind of like a DNS.
So when you specify Apple.com you are actually specifying an IP address behind the scene.
And we're going to talk about DNS in just a minute.
But this is for example one example of one of these specific IP addresses.
Now you might be wondering because these two devices are now connected to this router, my iPad.
Well, technically it could just specify the IP address of this computer and well, it could talk to
it.
Is that right.
And the answer is yes.
If and there's a huge if this computer is opening a port and sending some information across that port.
So if my MacBook maybe opens up a port, maybe port 49, and it specifically says that whoever sends
a request to my machine, so whoever specifies my IP address and also my port, I'm going to send them
maybe a specific image, or I'm going to give them access to my whole computer, or I'm going to maybe
send an Http response back to them.
So this device should specify exactly what should happen if somebody sends a request to itself on a
specific port.
So if my iPad now specifies this IP address and also this port, it's going to receive maybe an image
if it specifies another port, if my MacBook is also configured to send some information on that port,
well, the iPad is going to receive it.
If not, well, nothing will happen if my MacBook is not accepting any connections whatsoever.
So it's not sending any requests through any ports.
My iPad will not do anything if.
Puts down the IP address of this computer.
Nothing and absolutely nothing will happen.
Right.
So this is how this works.
For example, a server, the reason that we call them a server is because they are configured in an
exact way to say, all right, whoever sends a request to my IP address and to this port, I'm going
to send them this set of information.
Right.
That is why we call them a server.
It's not a special machine.
Right now.
You could make your laptop into a server.
And it doesn't have to be, you know, it doesn't have to have some hardware, special hardware to be
a server.
You could just right now become a server, you could make your laptop a server, and then you could
maybe buy a domain name and install it on your server will not install it actually using DNS, DNS servers
and all that stuff that we're going to talk about in just a minute.
But you could make any machine into a server as long as it is specifically specified what to do when
a connection comes to my IP address, when a computer who is connected to the network specifies my IP
address and a specific port, what I'm going to do in that case, if nothing is happening, well then
we don't call that device a server.





All right.
So let's see this in action.
Let's see.
Right now I have my MacBook and also my iPad.
And they are now connected to a router.
Let's see what will happen if my iPad tries to specify the IP address of this machine.
Well, as we said before, if two computers are on the same network or they are maybe on the public
network, so they are in the internet and one of them specifies the IP address of the other machine.
Well, if the other machine is not sending any information whatsoever on a specific port, well then
nothing will happen.
So if this is my MacBook right now, if my iPad just specifies its IP address, even though they are
now connected to the same router, well, absolutely nothing will happen.
But let's try to change it.
Well, I've gone ahead and set up a very simple Http server.
Feel free to do the same thing if you want, or just watch me do it.
But if you can do it, I highly encourage you to do so.
So just copy paste this code.
I know it's not really going to make any sense to you.
I mean, we haven't really talked about Http.
We haven't talked about, you know, these headers, the status code.
But basically it means that we're sending some application Json format.
So we're sending this object which is message equals either back to the client, back to whoever sends
an Http request to this port on my IP address.
Now notice something right here.
When I'm listening my servers, I'm kind of like firing up my server.
I specified the port and also as the second argument, I specified the host.
In other words, this second argument indicates on which interface on my machine I want to run my applicationon.
So this IP address should look familiar to you.
We just talked about it.
This is the loopback address or localhost.
So if I just omit it.
So if I don't specify anything for the second argument it's going to be defaulted to that loopback address.
So I'm going to just run this application.
So I've created a folder on my desktop called demo.
And I've created this file called app.js.
And inside of this file I've wrote this code.
You can just copy paste this code.
We also ran this in the setup video.
So if you have access to that code just copy paste it and run it.
So if I run the application so node app.js says that server running on port 4080.
Now this means that my machine right now is sending some amount of information on this port on localhost
or on its loopback IP address.
So I could just open up my browser and I could go to local host 4080 and I'll get that message.
'Hi there'.
And I'm sure you have done this many, many times.
If you have used NodeJS or any other backend technologies, you just open up a port and you go to localhost
that.
But also I could specify that IP address.
So I could say that 127.0.0.1 and I'm going to get back the exact same message.
So we could also here instead of after the port, I could specify maybe host name.
And my host name is going to be 127 001.
And I could just pass this here like this.
And I could say server running.
So server running at this and then this.
And because it's an Http application worry too much about it.
We're going to talk about Http in just a second.
I'm also going to specify a URL.
We don't need a URL for networks to work.
So if one computer wants to talk to another computer they don't need to specify a URL.
They just have to specify the IP address and also the port.
And that's it.
But in this case because it's Http which is very high level, we're also going to specify a port because
our browser will now identify this.
You know a bit better.
Anyway we're going to talk about this in just a minute.
But the point is that this is my IP address and this is my port.
So let's run this one more time.
So server running at this, some could just copy this and I can just refresh and I'm going to get the
exact same result.
Or if I just put that again I'm going to get that same message message.
'Hi there.'
So as we talked before computers only understand IP addresses.
They don't understand anything else.
So if we want to make one computer to talk to another one you have to specify an IP address.
All right.
So what I'm going to do right now is that I'm going to open up my iPad and try to connect to my machine
and let's see what's going to happen.
All right.
All right, so on my MacBook I have connected to my iPhone.
So I have made my iPhone into a router and also a switch by turning on personal hotspots.
So when you turn on the personal hotspot on your mobile, your mobile will turn into a switch and also
a router.
So you could now connect to it.
You could make use of the Wi-Fi and all of that kind of good stuff.
So now my iPhone is acting like a router, which is just the same.
If I were to install a router right here and connect it to my wall and then connect to that Wi-Fi.
So my iPhone is acting just like that.
So my MacBook is now connected to my iPhone, which is my router in this case.
And also on my iPad right here.
If I go to settings and I go into Wi-Fi, you could also see that I am now connected to Joseph's iPhone,
which is the exact same router that I'm connected to on my MacBook.
So now we have that exact diagram that we talked about.
We have a router which is my iPhone, and also we are connected to it both using my iPad and using my
MacBook.
So basically these two devices are now connected to a same router.
So as we talked before when we have a case like this.
So my iPad right here should be able to just specify the IP address of my MacBook and maybe that port
and maybe get that message.
'Hi there'.
Do you think that's going to work.
So let's give it a shot.
So I'm going to open up Safari.
And right here I'm going to put down that IP address of my MacBook.

But the point is this is one of my interfaces, which is my loopback interface.
So your machine could have many, many interfaces.
And one of them could be maybe Ethernet cable, one of them could be Wi-Fi, one of them could be loopback
like this.
And you could run your Node.js application on some of these interfaces, or maybe on all of them.
Not quite sure.
It really depends on what that interface is accepting, which are the things that we're not really going
to get into.
But in this case, what we're looking for is, to be honest, I have no idea what some of these interfaces
are, so I'm not really going to talk about them.
I mean, I have some ideas, but not enough to explain what they do.
But what we're looking for is our Wi-Fi interface, because that is how I am connected to my router.
And that is also the same network that my iPad is connected to.
So I need to find that IP address, which should be the name is usually n0 in my case.
Yep.
It's right here.
And you can see that my version four IP address is this one, which is the exact same thing that we
saw right here.
So if I option click on my Wi-Fi, you can see that my IP address is one 72.20 .1.2 which is also specified
right here.
So go ahead.
Do this.
If you're on windows, maybe you could go to your networks and then see the IP address.
Just Google how to find my IP address on my machine.
Now don't try to find your public IP address.
That's different.
And we're going to talk about it in just a second.
What I'm talking about is the IP address of your machine in that private network that you're in right
now, which is this one in my case.
All right.
So this is my IP address.
So let's see what will happen if I specify this.
All right.
So I am on my iPad again.
And I'm going to just specify that IP address 172 dot 20 .1.2.



The reason is it's not going to work because I am running my node application on the loopback interface
on this IP address, which means that only people who send a request from my own machine could get access
to this file.
So if someone from the outside internet tries to access this IP address and this port, they're not
going to be able to do it.
This is my loopback address, and my node is running on this interface.
So nobody else could access this application.
Now technically this is my machine.
And if I run another application on it that is accepting traffic from another interface, and that application
gets those traffics and redirects those traffics to my node application because it's on the same machine.
So it could also access my localhost and then also get the response from my node machine and then send
those data back through that interface.
Well then yeah, I have some ways to connect to the outside internet.
If you have heard about nginx, which is a pretty popular application, when you try to deploy your
application online, your node application online, you most probably have used this nginx, which you
could also use as a reverse proxy, which is the exact same thing that we talked about.
It will accept traffic through a public interface to an interface that's on the network, and it could
redirect those traffic to your any port number that you specify.
And it doesn't matter if it's on localhost.
But in this case we're going to talk about nginx.
When we're talking about deploying Node.js application.
We're not going to talk about it right now.
What we can do also in Node.js is to specify another interface.
All right.
So this is my very first interface that I use my localhost.
And notice if I change it to zero it's not going to work.
All right.
So if I run the node app again so node app.js it's going to say that address not available at this IP
address because well yes that's true.
It's not available.
He loopback IP address is 127.0.0.1, and that is only yet that is the IP version four version of it.
And it's not zero zero.
It's not anything else.
It has to be this one, otherwise it will not work.
IP addresses have to be super accurate.
If you just mess up just one digit just by one bit, that's a totally different IP address.



