In the previous video, we talked about TCP, UDP and concepts behind the fourth layer.
And in this video, we're going to focus on a very crucial concept in the fourth layer which is the
port numbers.
Now in the fourth layer transport layer we said port numbers are connecting this layer to the application
layer.
So port numbers are very important in this layer.
So you have to specify a port.
Now you might be saying all right what kind of port can I specify.
And what are the ranges and what are the limitations.
And the answer is if you want to find that answer just search for any port numbers.


So here you could see the well known ports.
I'm assuming that you might know the SSH port, which is port 22 right here for SSH and some other
well known ports like 80 which is for Http.
But if you scroll all the way up you could see that port ranges.

Right here are these.
Now the port range really depends on your operating system.
But in general, ports starting from zero all the way up to 1023 are for system ports.
If you want to open a port that is in this range on your operating system, you have to run that application
as sudo as root and use ports in this range.
And we also have some dynamic or private ports in this range.
So I could say the range is from zero all the way up to this number 65,535.
So as long as your application is in this range, you are pretty safe.
But also try to stay away from system ports.
So when you are creating a node application, just try to go higher than 1023.
I mean, you technically could assign something in this range, but that is not really advisable.


Now, something that you notice here is that we have some duplicate ports, and you might be wondering,
what the heck is that?
For example, for port number two, why do we have two?
Well, the answer is one of them is for TCP and another one is for UDP.
So technically you can create two applications  on a single port.
So you can have a node application that is running on TCP on port 8000.
And you could also have another application on port 8000 which is a UDP application.
But you cannot have the same thing twice.
For example, if you run your application a TCP application on port 8000, you cannot create an open
another node application on the same port if that TCP.
So that's also something to keep in mind.


So as long as you know the applications port is higher than this port 1023, you should be good to go.
And if there is another application that's using the same port, you will receive an error.
That port number is already in use.


For example, port 22 is for your SSH port.
This is a port that is used to make you connect to your server.
So if you are so if you buy a server or you rent one so you get something from AWS or Digital Ocean
and you try to connect to it, you will use SSH.
And if you occupy that port, maybe using your node application, you're going to run into some issues.




But what I really mean by system ports, for example port 80 is for the Http port.
So if I just run my node application on that port, now if I don't specify anything as a port, it's
going to be default to port 80.
So right now I could just say localhost and get my message.
Or I could just specify that IP address 0.0.1.
And without needing to specify any port whatsoever, I'm going to be able to access my application.
Because right now it's running on port 80, and port 80 is the default port for the Http.
So if you are in this range of 0 to 60, maybe what was number 65,000?



The next section is all about Http, about Http version one and two are built on top of TCP, and version
three is built on top of UDP.

