Server is going to be our chat server.
And the client is going to be anyone who could connect to the server.
So we're going to set up some kind of protocol for ourself and say that whoever sends us a specific
message, we're going to be able to extract the message and log it onto the screen so that everybody
else is connected to our server is going to be able to see that message.
Now, this client, we could set up millions of these instances and they could all connect to the server.
So we're going to implement one client.
But we could have millions of other clients.
We could run this client application many many times and they could all connect to the server.
So let's first start with the server.
And then we're going to move on to the client.
I'm also going to open up the documentation for the.
Net module because we're going to use it a lot.
So I'm just going to go into the NodeJS website.
I'm going to go into the docs and I'm just going to click on the LTS version.
And right here I'm going to scroll down and find the Net module.
And I'm just going to click on it.
Now there's something I just want to say about this documentation.
If you start reading this documentation, it says that the node.
Net module provides an asynchronous network API for creating stream based TCP or IPC servers and clients.
Now there's something I just want to point out right now that this IPC could be really confusing because
IPC could also stand for Internet Protocol communication.
Well, it doesn't stand for that in this case, but it could be really confusing because this.
Net module is usually for these networking stuff.
And you might see this and you might scratch your head around and wonder what in the world is IPC.
So we already know what is TCP and what is a TCP server and what is a TCP client.
Just two different endpoints who could talk together.
But what is this IPC here?
Now I just want to say that this IPC here has nothing to do with the networking.
And by networking I mean all those stuff that we talked about, all those layers, IP addresses, port
numbers and whatnot.
This is a totally different thing.
This IPC here stands for Inter-process Communication, and it is something that's done in your operating
system and in your operating system, only to make a way for different processes to talk together and
to communicate with each other.
Now, the reason that they're both in the same module and node, well, actually kind of makes sense
because well, this net module is all about communication.
It could be communicating from this endpoint to another endpoint which could be a TCP connection, or
it could talk to another process.
Now this IPC is a very important concept.
We're not really going to learn about it in this video.
We're going to learn about it in another video where we talk about child processes and stuff like that.
The reason that it's so important is because you need to have a way of your node process to talk to
other processes.
So if I open up my activity monitor, you could see that I have around 400 processes running on my machine
right now.
It got reduced down to 380.
But there are a lot of processes and my node process, if I just run node app.js, it's going to be
only one process.
And if I start a database application, it's going to be another process.
Now it's very important for these processes, for some of them actually to talk together.
And that's what they're doing.
In fact, if I just search for Google I could see that I have lots of Google processes opened up on
my machine.
One of them is Google Chrome one, another one is the renderers.
And these do have a way of communication between together.
So there are some ways in your operating system to make use of, to make one process to talk to another
process.
And we're going to talk about all of that stuff later on in the course and not right now.
But it's very important because imagine you have your node application and you might want to have a
database.
Now you need to have a way to make these two processes communicate together.
So they could send an exchange information, or there could be a video editing application.
So you are maybe using Node.js to grab a file from client from a user, and then you want to do some
editing on it.
And for that you might want to use another process.
So there needs to be a way for these two processes to talk together.
And one way that you can do it in node is using IPC.
And it's pretty good actually that you could just learn this.
Net module using TCP.
And you're just learning one thing but you're also learning.
Another thing, a completely different thing.
You're learning how to create TCP connections, but you're also learning how to create IPC servers.
So how to do interprocess communications using the exact same module, the exact same function.
The only thing that's different is when you're creating the server, when you want to create an IPC
connection or IPC server, instead of specifying an IP address and a port, you just specify a file.
So you just specify a path and two processes that are supposed to communicate together.
They're going to use that file to exchange information together.
And it's an operating system concept and really has nothing to do with NodeJS.
It's not an invention of node.
So you could now make NodeJS to talk to another or maybe C plus plus application Java application Python
application just by specifying a path and talking together.
So again we're going to talk about them later on.
But notice that we are right now just focusing on the networking stuff and the TCP.
But also you're learning something else on the side as a bonus maybe.
Anyway, so that's just something that I just wanted to say because this IPC, we're going to see it
a lot in the documentation.
And again, it has nothing to do with all those networking stuff that we talked about.
There is no IP addresses here.
There is no ports.
It's just a way for two processes to talk together.
In fact, if one process is in one machine and another one is in another machine, they can't really
talk together.
For that matter, you have to use TCP.


Now in the Net module there are two main important functions that we need to talk about.
net.createServer()
net.createConnection()

So let's talk about what these two do.
Now the first one, Createserver, as the name suggests, uses to create a server.
So a server is just an endpoint that serves something.
And a client is someone who's making use of those services.
So your server it could be a game server a chat server a web server.
It could be anything.
But it serves data.
It does something.
It serves something to the client.
So we could have hundreds and millions of clients who will talk to one single server, and they could
all make use of all these services, or only maybe one service that this server serves.
So using this method, you could create one of these servers.
And using.
net.createConnection() you could create a client.
And this client should be connected to a server.
If there's no server then there is no client.
And that's how it works in TCP.
So you first have to create your server.
And you have to specify an IP address, port.
And then in your create connection you will specify that IP address and that port.
And now this client talks to that server.
And they could now exchange information.



Net server can be a TCP or an IPC server depending on what it listens to.
So if you specify an IP address and a port, it's going to be a TCP server.
And if you just specify a path it's going to be an IPC server.
If you just specify port and then maybe host, this is a TCP server.
And if you just specify a path this is going to be an IPC server.



server.address()

returns the address, the family and the port of that server that is listening.
it returns all the stuff if it's listening on an IP socket, but if it's listening
on Unix domain socket, the name is returned as a string.
So IP socket here just means that TCP stuff.
So if it's a TCP connection it's going to return this port, this family type and the address.
But if it is an inter-process communication server it's going to return just the name as a string.
So again listening on a pipe or Unix domain sockets, these are the terms used for IPC or inter-process
communication, which is something that we're going to talk about later in the course and not right
now.
So we don't care about these two things, but I just want you to have some idea about it.
So that piping is just a way for two processes to talk together.
Unix domain socket is just another way of two processes to talk together, but they work in a slightly
different way.
But the concept is the same two processes on the same operating system talking together.
And this one is an IP socket, which is a TCP application.




server.on("connection", (socket) => {
  console.log("A new connection to the server!");
});

when hover over socket it show net.Socket 

And this callback function accepts one parameter which is a socket.
And this is the next thing that we need to talk about.
Now, if I can hover over the socket, you could see that this one is another class net.Socket .
Now this is also another very important thing to understand about the Net module.

So three very important stuff to understand about the.

Net module 
one is net.createServer() which returns a net.Server().
And another one is net.createConnection().

Let me just save this here.
So const client equals net dot create connection.
And this client if I just hover over it you could see that it's a class of type net dot socket which
is the exact same type that this socket is right here.
So what does socket mean basically.

Socket just means your end point.
So now you could read information from the socket.
And you could also now send information to the socket.

So if I just say socket.write like this.
And this socket is actually a stream.
Same for this one.
Their types are identical.
So whatever we can do here we can also do it right here with this client.

const client = net.createConnection({ host: "127.0.0.1", port: 3008 }, () => {
  console.log("Connected to the server!");
});

server.on("connection", (socket) => {
  console.log("A new connection to the server!");
});

when hovering above client -----> net.Socket
when hovering above socket it also --->net.Socket



So whatever I write to the socket because it's my end point.
Remember we said that in TCP we have two end points right.
So end points maybe a and maybe end points maybe b.
And this B could send information to this a.
And also this A could send information to this B.
They are duplex.
So they could both read from something and they could also write to something.
So these two end points could now talk together.

And in the NodeJS net module we call these endpoints socket.
Actually this is a computer science topic.
So when you have two end points two networking endpoints that are talking together we called them sockets.
So that's why we have that name.
So now I could both write and make use of that on data event to figure out what kind of data I'm receiving
on this endpoint.
For now though, instead of just writing or reading, I'm just going to log something and say a new
connection to the server.



When you hover over server and it shows net.Server, that is simply 
the TypeScript/VS Code type information telling you what kind of object server is.

Let’s break it down clearly:

✅ What is net.Server?

net.Server is a class in Node.js from the built-in net module.

It represents a TCP server.

When you write:

const server = net.createServer();


You're creating an instance of the net.Server class.